[MUSIC]
In this lecture,
we'll talk about what a sketch is.
A sketch is basically another name for
an Arduino program.
We'll start looking at
the structure of the sketch but
actually in this particular lecture,
before we get to that,
I wanna define the language
subset being used in Arduino.
So really, an Arduino program is a C++
program, and we talk about classes in C++.
Now we're not covering classes in this
course, but we need a little bit,
just a little bit [LAUGH],
so you understand how to use
them in the context of Arduino Sketches,
so we'll do that.
So an Arduino program, it's called
a sketch, that's the term you see.
C++ program.
So, Arduino is really the language
that you're writing a sketch in,
is really C+ using Arduino
library functions.
So, there are a lot of pre-defined
library functions, and
you invoke those, but
really it's C++ code that you are writing.
Now, I would say that
C++ is a superset of C.
So there is C, and there's C++.
Anything that is legal C,
is also legal C++.
So C++ has more features than C.
And generally, when you look at Arduiono's
sketches, the code that they are using,
that people use, they restrict themselves
primarily to the features of C.
They don't go outside and
use too many features of C++.
Now, you could, but
generally that's not what I see.
But they do use some aspect of classes,
because they're used with libraries.
And we'll get to that.
So, we have to know a little
bit about what a class is,
just because you're forced to use them
a little bit, inside your sketches.
You don't have to define a class, but
you have to be able to
use preexisting classes.
So C++ includes classes, so let's just
talk a little bit about what a class is.
So, a class is something that's used
in the context of what we'll call
object-oriented programming.
So object-oriented programming,
the idea is just a way to
organize your code, really.
That's all it's for, as far as I can tell.
It's for organizing your code to make it
easier to understand, which by the way is
very important in big pieces of code, cuz
code can get very difficult to understand.
So, object-oriented is a way to
organize the [COUGH] data and
the functions to make it
more easier to understand.
You're using what's called encapsulation,
so you're grouping things together,
encapsulating them into these units.
So you group together data and
functions that are related.
So if you see a bunch of information,
by data, I mean variables, say, arrays,
things like that.
You have a bunch of data and a bunch
of functions that act on that data,
that operate on that data, and
they are related in some conceptual way,
then you group them together
into a single class.
This is a common way to do it.
So, a class you can think of as a type
that can be defined by the programmer,
a user-defined type or
programmer-defined type.
So, think of type like integers, right?
The class of integers, we'll call it the
class of integers, that type, it has data,
which is the number, the actual integer.
So the integer three,
it has value three, right?
So that's its data.
But in addition, the class of integers
also has a set of functions, right?
Plus, minus, times, divide.
Different operations that
you can perform on integers.
So every class you can see as having data,
whatever the data is, and
a set of functions associated with it.
And types, like an integer, is sort of a
very simple class, it's got just one data.
And it's got a bunch of function
that apply to integers.
So, those types that we have,
are predefined, right?
Integers, floats.
Float has a bunch of
functions that are performed,
a bunch of information data
associated with it too.
Those are all predefined,
they're built into the language.
But, classes allow you to define new types
based on whatever type of
program you're defining.
So, you can make
application specific types.
So you can think of classes like that.
So let's just do an example.
So, here's an example of
the use of classes, and
how it helps you to organize
your code a little bit.
So, we get two examples of code
that do exactly the same thing,
the top and the bottom.
Top example, we don't use classes.
We say look, we want to write some code
that plots some points on the screen,
points of two dimensions,
x and y dimensions.
So, one way to do it,
say I want to plot three points.
So, I say int at top line, and
I declare a bunch of variables,
x1, x2, x3, y1, y2, y3.
And these are the x and
y coordinates of three different points.
And you can tell the x1 is related to the
y1, because they both have a 1 after them.
You as a programmer have
to keep that in your head.
x1 is related to y1 because
of that 1 after them.
x2 is related to y2 because
of the 2 after them.
So that's an extra burden
on me as a programmer.
I have to do appropriate naming so
I can realize, oh,
this variable is related to this variable.
x2 is related to the y2.
And this is what you're trying to
get away from with classes, right?
We don't want to have
to rely on the coder.
If the programmer does
some bad variable naming,
it would be very hard to be able to tell
which x and which y were related, right?
But it's a burden of the programmer
to name things in such a way that he,
she can understand which
variables are related to what.
Okay, so I define these variables.
Then the next line, I initialize them to
0s or whatever I wanna initialize them to.
And then I call this function plot and
it takes the x and
y coordinates that I wanna plot, okay?
So I would call plot(x1, y1),
then call plot(x2, y2), and so on.
So that's one way that you can represent
these three points and plot them.
Now below, what we're doing is,
we're showing how you might
do this if you have a class.
If you have already defined
a class called point,
then you can do it in
the way show down below.
So this class is called point.
Every point would have to have an x and
a y coordinate inside it,
so in our class definition,
which I'm not showing you right here.
It would define an int x and an int y,
so now when I declare my variables,
I don't declare the int.
I declare the points.
I say point p1, p2, p3.
So that declares three different points,
and
I don't have to explicitly declare the x
and the y for each one of these points.
I can just say point p1, p2, p3, and
because I have defined this class of
points, the machine will know okay,
p1 has gotta have an x and y,
p2 has its own x y, p3 has its own.
So those get defined without me
having to think about the details.
But I just say, make a point,
and the program says, oh,
a point means there's an x and a y.
So, I declare my points,
then I make a new point.
So there I say p1 = new point(0,0).
new is a function that creates a new
object of any particular class.
So that actually initiallizes the p1 and
the p2 and p3.
You'd make a new point and (0,0) are the
arguments, those will become the x and
the y values for this point.
So, I'd initialize that, and
then I'd call a function called
p1.plot in order to plot the point.
Now notice how that plot is different
than the plot above, right.
The plot above takes two arguments, x1 and
y1, which are the coordinates
that I want to plot.
The bottom plot doesn't
have any arguments, right?
It's just p1.plot.
So, the reason why it doesn't need the
arguments is because it's called from p1.
So p1 is the object that we've created,
the point.
And if you say p1.plot,
it basically tells the plot function look,
when you're looking for
variables like x and y,
refer to what is on the left-hand
side of the dot, right?
The left-hand side of the dot is p1,
so they will use the x and
the y values from p1 and
plot the point accordingly, okay?
And actually that notation right there,
we're gonna be using that.
Where we give the name of an object or
a class, then you give a dot,
then you give the name of a function.
We're gonna be using that throughout.
That's how library functions are often
invoked, is with that type of syntax.
So we'll look at that more later
when we get to some sketch examples.
But this is generally what
a class is useful for.
So yeah,
all data's contained in one object.
So all the data related
to a point the x and
the y in this case are contained
in this one object.
This point object.
So p1 has its x and y, p2 has its x and
y, p3 has its x and y.
There are fewer parameters,
because we have fewer variables, right?
We don't have to have x1, y1, x2,
y2, x3, y3, we just have p1, p2, p3.
So we've reduced the number of
variables that we have to use and
reduced number of arguments to function.
So our plot function takes
no arguments now, right?
It doesn't have to take x1 or
y1 explicitly, you just say p1.plot and
it knows where to get the data from.
And you can define pont-specific,
when I say point-specific,
class-specific functions.
So, in this case, point-specific, so
the function plot is specific
to the point class, right?
You can only call plot, in this example,
on something in the point class,
so p1.plot.
Say you have an integer,
x, you can't say x.plot.
Because plot doesn't work for an x.
There's no plot function defined for
an integer, right?
But p1.plot, since p1 is the point,
and we've defined plot for points,
then that will work.
So you can make these
class specific functions.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]